Welcome back in this video were going to
be using on trigger exit again we're gonna
recap the problem with the current setup
use on trigger exit for objects leaving
colliders and then refactor PinSetter.cs
yes for the new paradigm. So the problem
we have at the moment is if we start the
game and the ball ends up straight in
the gutter for instance; that's an extreme
example, but the game will never reset because
the ball never enters this PinSetter
collider down here. So rather than having
an opt-in system where the ball has to
go into this collider I wanna create a new
collider that's basically everywhere on
the lane but this so it basically is
going to be a collider that starts down
the end of the lane there and extends
all the way to about here and when the
ball leaves this new collider we want it
to do exactly the same thing
that this collider currently does so
it's just really making it an opt-out
system so I want you to do all that and
see if you can make that paradigm shift.
Change ball entered box to ball left box in
PinSetter.cs that's just a
change of the variable name; create a new
lane collider as I described; connect a
GutterBall.cs script in there use
on trigger exit to set the PinSetter's
new variable
ball left box and then test it all works OK.
So go ahead pause the video and
challenge yourself once more. Secret
sauce of this course; hey that rhymes. OK so welcome
back let's get on with it now so what do we
want here? Well, first thing we'd better do
is create the collider so I'm gonna
put it against the lane, I'm gonna make a
new game object I'm gonna call it
something like... I dunno lane box
something boring like that put it on the
on the lane itself ok so I've got an
empty game object there, now I've
already got a
collider and an object here of roughly the right
dimensions here with the PinSetter so
I'm gonna copy the component the
transform component of the pin setter
and past it onto the lane box as values.
That's about right
possibly let's add a box collider make it a
trigger very important, we don't want
physics. OK at least we've got something of
the right rough size now it's time to
move to the left in fly through mode
which is where you hold the right mouse
button and then use the WSAD keys
in order to move around now we need to
rescale this guy so I think he needs to
be about 1829 long not the z
position but the the length in z and
then we need to move it across this way
using the blue arrow until this end this
right hand end doesn't intersect the
front pin we want as soon as the ball
leaves this box we want it to start
counting pins it's bound to have hit a pin
by the time it well it's bound to be on
target to either hit a pin or miss by
the time it leaves the end of its box
but certainly when it leaves this box in
any direction whether it's upwards
downwards left or right we want to start
counting the effect on the pins
The other thing we want to be a little bit
careful of is down this end of the
ball we want to be a little bit careful
that the ball starts inside which it
does so that looks ok and the final thing
is just as I said to make sure it's a
trigger collider. Cool, so I'm gonna make a script on
here called GutterBall, well actually I told you
to call it GutterBall but I'm going to
pick a more sensible name it's going to
be lane box yeah lane box because it's
the behavior of the lane box, that
makes more sense so let's call it lane
box. OK, fantastic so I'm gonna tidy
my scripts up into the script folder and
then crack on with my necessary on
trigger exit method that I challenge you
to do and hopefully you manage to do. So
privately the lane box is gonna need some
concept of a PinSetter so a PinSetter
class PinSetter instance like so then we'd
better go find it on the start, wish I had a pound
for every time we do this type of thing.
Find object of type PinSetter Great, so we've got
the PinSetter there, we don't need update but we do need
void on trigger exit
collider collider and then it's just a
question of if now we want to check it's
the ball so collider dot
game object name; I'm gonna do it by name, a
little bit dangerous if we change the
name in the hierarchy of course if we
were in unity change this name here
of this ball then this will break but
that's ok
ball should stay the same name and in this
instance we set PinSetter dot ball out
of play
equals true now of course ball out of
play is not going to work at the moment
because it's not the name of the
variable over in PinSetter, so let's
find the one that we were using ball
entered box and let's make it public and
call it whatever I'm calling it in this
call - ball out of play
OK, fantastic so we also ought to refactor ball
into the box into ball out of play
everywhere that we see it so it won't
compile because we're just changing the
variable name just because it does a
different thing now
ok so what's going on here we're
starting off with the ball is not out of
play and then the lane box is forcing
this ball out of play variable let's see
if it works firstly. Click play, go off to the side.
Is it working? Yeah, the ball does reset
I'd like some affordance here I'd like to
know when the pin count starts so perhaps
we could make the text go red
or something like that the moment that
the ball becomes out of play so if you
look back over in the PinSetter in your
update method perhaps the moment that
the ball goes out of play we go standing
display color equals color red and then
when I bowl off to the side like this
it goes red, we know that we're waiting
two or three seconds, and we reset
Fantastic so the other thing is the PinSetter
we've got a collider on here, tempting
to just delete it but don't do that
don't ever just delete a collider because
look, there's two scripts that use it you
could disable it and see what the
effect is because it's very very easy to
fix; now if you disable notice what
happens. You see the pins are no longer
getting shredded because the shredder
script is using this collider so what we
want to do is to consider whether we
still need the collider; well we do need
because as I say the shredder is using it
but in the PinSetter script we have some
code somewhere the OnTriggerEnter , we
don't need any of this stuff. Now why not?
Just before i delete it let's look why not
because we have a PinSetter collider
here, but now we also have a lane box
here, and it's the lane box, the big box
that's going to do the triggering now, so
let's delete the OnTriggerEnter code
from the PinSetter.cs
leave the collider in place because the
shredder, remember needs it. Were also gonna
have to have a quick look at PinSetter
because I think we're exposing too much
publicly here so I'm going to take a
quick look through PinSetter and see if I can
tidy it up so do we need the last
standing count to be public?
Not really, a bit of a strange thing to
have public you wouldn't want your
designer fiddling with that so let's
make that private the standing display
text we're going to connect through the
inspector, the pin set we're going to provide in the
inspector ball out of play now that can
be a private as well now, we don't want that
changed from the outside so that's fine
the last standing count that's fine
the ball yes because it finds the ball
here that's good actually the action the
ball and the animator, because we find
them in start I wanna just put them
together right here, right above
the start just for tidiness. Last change
time and then action master is another
thing that we create so I'm just
grouping my variables up here a little
bit so make this guy private there's a TODO
here so I'm just trying up my code
that's all, so all this stuff the last settled
count etc. feels to me like
it goes together and the last change
time the action master is something that
we don't create on start but we use
later on, do we need action master at
this level, at this scope? Let's have a
look
Let's do a find for action master. It's only used in pins
have settled you see so we got the scope
of action master wrong and that's why
it's sitting out on a limb like this so
let's just take action master out of
here and then go into pins have settled
and create action master there. Perfect,
OK so ball out of play is inaccessible
due to its protection level, so I've gone
slightly over the top with my tidying up
we do need this ball out of play to be
public because it gets set from the
outside or, or and I'll do it this way I'm
gonna show you the other option is you
write a little method that just sets it.
So you make a method that is public void set
ball out of play doesn't return anything
and then it simply just sets the
variable.
OK, so now we have a method to do it now we
can keep our ball out of play private
and over in this instead of calling PinSetter
dot and then setting the variable
we actually just call the method; set ball out of play
like that so now PinSetter's looking
a lot better, we've got a public stuff a
private stuff the stuff we're about to
find in start and we also moved the
scope of our action master right inside pins
have settled Action Master's a bit big, if it got any bigger than this I would want to be
putting it into a different method but
it's just about a screen full so I'm not
gonna bother refactoring this at the
moment I'm just about happy
with that. Alright so I've made quite a few
changes let's check that it all works
first let's look at the PinSetter and see
that how much prettier it looks in inspector
a lot less for your designer or the
designer in you to break, let's bowl the
ball this is fine it's going off to the
side this goes red, starts waiting three
seconds does a tidy which is what we
want even though we didn't touch
anything we could have just clipped a
ball it doesn't know that and let's
bowl again; let's see if I can clip something this time so
we should have a pinfall of one and an
end turn. Interesting I got a Pin Fall
of one then a tidy there I did not
get an end turn, I think that's a
mistake so I'm gonna write this down on
a paper as a possible failing test. So I
went one and then my second bowl sorry I
did 0 and then on the second bowl
the one should have been tidy -
end turn rather,  and it was tidy. OK
well we'll put that in the tests in a
moment. Let's justtake a third bowls if
there's anything else squiffy going on
So I've missed there so it should be
pinfall 0 and tidy, that's right but
I'm worried about this middle one that
should've been an end turn.
So we have a pinfall of four there - it's
constantly only doing tidy now is this a
problem due to the refactoring I just
did or is it out action master misbehaving
now the great thing is we have test
driven development so we can immediately
come in and we can make sure that the
condition I just created test number 13
is that 0, 1 gives end turn and then we
bowl well I'm going to simplify this
actually just gonna go action master the
instance one which is what we did and
then we wanted an end turn to come out of
bowling another one in fact what I
think I did is I bowled 0, didn't I? That's what
I've written on my piece of paper. I bowled
0 and then a 1 and a good a tidy when I  should've got
an end turn. Let's try the test and see what the
test says; because we don't know
at the moment whether the problem is
with the; you see the problem isn't there so
by refactoring whatever I did in my
overzealous refactoring of the PinSetter
I somehow made this misbehave and
that is because I thought I was careless
with this scope so I said oh action
master doesn't need to be anywhere
except for in the scope of pins have
settled but of course we don't want a
new action master every time so I think
this is what's caused the problem, really
good learning here. I moved it down
because I said well the action
master only exists inside this method but
we do not want to recreate it every time,
we want a consistent single action
master instance so it can keep track
through the game so that's quite
important so we do need to take action
master back up to the top level; and this
would be a good time to comment and to
say we need it here as we want only one
instance. I suspect that's a problem, now
you see how test driven development
helped us there?
We had a problem, the game wasn't
behaving properly, we stuck with testing
we proved that action master itself
behaved right so you could tell that the
problem is outside of the action master
script and it was more about the
environment action master lives in and
and then I think we solved the problem
I'm pretty sure that's going to the
issue I just created so let's just check
a couple of bowls make sure they behave
properly see that we get the right pin
falls and actions logged in then
crack on so what's this going to be? One
It's given me 1 ball yeah that's worked out ok
nine and a tidy, ok now let's just do a
gutter ball, off to the side
crazy gutter ball, 0 end turn. Better, working
again so some really juicy lessons in
there. Congratulations on getting this
far, the game's really shaping up and I
will see you soon